# Features

- Authentication: Users can register, log in, and log out.
- Authorization: Users can only manage their own lists and tasks.
- Lists: Users can create, update, and delete lists.
- Tasks: Users can create, edit, delete, complete/uncomplete tasks between lists.
- Subtasks can hiden or shown by clicking on the expand icon.
- Drag and drop: Users can drag a chunk of nested tasks and drop it into another list.
- [Extra] Tasks can be nested nicely up to 4-5 levels deep.
- [Extra] Responsive design: The app is responsive on several types of screens.
- [Extra] Dark mode: Users can switch between light and dark mode by changing the browser preference.

## Demo

[Loom](https://www.loom.com/share/42f82010b2094d198bc4a7b8acac4a39?sid=2ac8994b-1439-4d1b-bb5f-a81472e9d500)

## Technologies

- React for the frontend/client
- Python/Flask for the backend/server
- SQLite for the database

# Installation

## Backend

Move to the `backend` directory

```bash
cd backend
```

Create and activate a virtual environment:

```bash
python3.11 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
```

Install the requirements:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Run the server, default port is 5000:

```bash
flask run
```

Unfortunately, the API endpoints in the front end are hardcoded to `http://127.0.0.1:5000/api`. Therefore, **you need to run the backend on port 5000.**

## Frontend

In another terminal, move to the `frontend` directory, install the dependencies and start the server (default port is 3000):

```bash
cd frontend
npm install
npm start
```

# Citations

My heartfelt thanks to my friends, Kennedy for debugging the models, Paul for setting up proxy (although I ended up using CORS), and Xinyi for helping me with the frontend.

## AI Statement

Majority of this code was generated by ChatGPT and debugged by Copilot + me. ChatGPT generated the initial code for the backend and frontend, but both weren't helpful in refactoring the code (big issue: props drilling).

# Design considerations

This is a quick remake since I was stuck on my previous project. There are a few things I know about and would like to improve, but couldn't due to time constraints:

- Make endpoints more RESTful (e.g. `GET /lists/:id/tasks` instead of `GET /list/`).
- Document the API automatically with Swagger 2.0/OpenAPI 3.0
- Set up a proper error handling system
- Add unit tests and integration tests
- Refactor the frontend to use Redux or Context API. Right now the frontend is separate by components and pages, but it's not very organized in terms of state management. I'm not familiar with React.
